Background and scope
A Hong Kong incorporated company (the “Issuer”) wholly-owned by The Chinese Gold & Silver Exchange Society (the “Society”) intends to promote the development and foster the electronic trading and transfer of commodity gold, other than by means of blockchain, amongst members of the Society (“Members”). “Goldzip”, a deposit receipt of commodity gold will be issued to Members who deposit commodity gold to designated vault of the Issuer.  A transaction fee will be charged for each transfer.   The initial development and rollout of Goldzip will be founded by the Issuer, with the capital contribution and shareholders loan from the Society. The features of Goldzip are set out in Schedule 1.
We have been asked to advise on whether Goldzip may fall under the regulatory regime of the Securities and Futures Commission (“SFC”). We express no opinion about any other matter, including (without limitation) the legality, validity or enforceability of any document.
Opinion
On the basis of the foregoing, the assumptions set out in this opinion and our analysis in Schedule 2, and having regard to other relevant factors and features of Goldzip set out in Schedule 1, we are of the opinion that Goldzip are not “shares”, “debentures” or “futures contracts” and are unlikely to be interests in “collective investment scheme”. 
While spot precious-metal trading is not regulated by the SFC, paper gold scheme (an arrangement in respect of gold bullion and gold coin) has been prescribed by notice under section 393 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”) as collective investment scheme.  We trust that the Issuer will take caution so that the operations involving the taking possession of the physical gold and the transfer of Goldzip will not fall under one of the featured arrangements, albeit Goldzips are only offered to Members.  
Further, the SFC has stated in its “Statement on Security Token Offerings” (the “Statement”) that (i) Security Tokens which are digital representations of ownership of assets (eg, gold or real estate) or economic rights (eg, a share of profits or revenue) utilising blockchain technology are likely to be "securities" under the SFO and hence, subject to the securities laws of Hong Kong and (ii) Security Tokens are normally offered to professional investors only. While Goldzip does not have a token feature, the Issuer shall take caution on registration of Transferee Members to ensure that they are professional investors.
*Schedule 2 sets out our full analysis, including important notes and risk factors about the conclusions we have reached, together with relevant policy statements from Hong Kong regulators and the Financial Secretary that currently support our overall opinion.
Important note: The relatively novel nature of digital tokens, coupled with their increasing popularity, has resulted in an increased risk of regulatory attention. Although Goldzip does not involve blockchain technology, and gold (as a property) is commonly considered as a commodity rather than securities and receipt of gold (unlike receipts for shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes which are defined as securities under Schedule 1 to the SFO) has not yet been prescribed by notice under section 392 as securities under the SFO,  this area involves complex and developing areas of law that have not been fully tested by the courts or regulatory authorities of Hong Kong.  This means that a Court or regulatory authority could take a different view to that which has been expressed in our opinion.  Extreme care and attention required in relation to further developments.
Assumptions
In addition to the assumptions expressed in this letter, in preparing this opinion we have assumed:
1.	that our opinion is limited to the matters expressed in this letter, and you do not currently require us to opine on other matters such as (without limitation):
(i)	nature of Goldzip other than its initial issue by the Issuer;
(ii)	matters other than the initial issue of Goldzip;
(iii)	the development or use of on-line trading platforms or registration of transfers;
(iv)	any technical specifications, parameters, performance or functions of Goldzip;
(v)	arrangements with third parties, including (without limitation) service providers involved in the initial issue of Goldzip;
(vi)	taxation, accounting or reporting issues of any kind; 
(vii)	onboarding or know-your-client issues including but not limited to  compliance law relating to anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other financial crime matters;
(viii)	contractual matters, including vitiating factors that may undermine any documentation issued in connection with the initial issue of Goldzip or impact its interpretation; and
(ix)	general conduct of business requirements including record-keeping, data protection, security, internal risk management, employment, human resources, immigration or staff training;  
2.	the information (including information set out in Schedule 1) set out in this opinion is correct, complete and not misleading.  We assume that there are no other facts that affect any of the conclusions we have reached in connection with this opinion;
3.	that the common law and rules of equity of England which applied in Hong Kong on 30 June 1997 continue to apply, subject to:
(i)	their later independent development, which rests primarily with the Courts of Hong Kong and interpretation by the SFC as it may publish by way of statements from time to time;
(ii)	the extent to which they do not contravene the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China, which was adopted at the Third Session of the Seventh National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China on 4 April 1990; and
(iii)	their amendment by the legislature of Hong Kong.
Benefit
This opinion is addressed to you personally and may not, without our prior written consent, be:
(i)	relied on by another person (including members of the Society);
(ii)	disclosed, except in connection with any litigation or proposed litigation in relation to this opinion; or
(iii)	filed with a government or other agency or quoted or referred to in a public document.
This opinion is strictly limited to the matters stated in it and does not apply by implication to other matters.
This opinion is given in respect of the laws of Hong Kong which are in force at 9.00 am Hong Kong time on the date of this letter and on the basis that we have no obligation to notify any addressee of this opinion of any change in the laws of Hong Kong or its interpretation, application or administration after the date of this opinion.

Yours faithfully



REED SMITH RICHARDS BUTLER
 
Schedule 1 – Summary of Facts of the Issuer and Goldzip
A.	Introduction 
1.	Parties Involved
1.1.		Issuer background: The Issuer is a company limited by shares established in Hong Kong and  wholly owned by the Society.  
1.2.	 Society backgound: As recognised by the SFC (https://www.sfc.hk/web/EN/about-the-sfc/contact-us/public-enquiries-further-guidance-and-sources-of-information.html), the Society is the sole exchange in Hong Kong which trades physical silver and gold.  The exchange is currently open to Members only.
1.3.	 Establishment of Issuer: Based on the representation by the Society, the establishment of the Issuer is to promote the development and foster the electronic trading and transfer of commodity gold amongst Members.  The governance structure of the Issuer is designed to promote sustainable development, effective project execution and financial security. The Issuer will also be responsible for improving the collaboration, regulating the fund usage, and project operation. 
1.4.		Funding: The initial development and rollout of Goldzip will be funded by the Issuer, with the capital contribution and shareholders loan from the Society.  Similar to the existing trading of spot gold, a transaction fee will be charged on each transaction.
2.	Features of Goldzip 
2.1.		Issue of Goldzip:  
2.1.1.	Goldzips are electronic receipts issued by the Issuer to the depositing Member upon deposit of physical gold to designated vault of the Issuer (“Depositing Member”).   
2.1.2.	 Each Goldzip will bear identification of the Depositing Member.   
2.1.3.	Goldzip will be denominated in such denomination as the Issuer considers appropriate to facilitate transfer.  
2.2.		Benefit of Goldzip:  
2.2.1.	A registered holder of Goldzip shall be entitled to retreive the relevant physical gold as deposited by the Depositing Member upon surrender of the Goldzip to the vault of the Society. 
2.2.2.	Goldzips are transferable amongst Members and will facilitate the delivery of and the taking possession of physical gold by Members. 
2.2.3.	Transfers of Goldzip will be registered by the Issuer upon confirmation by the selling Member (the “Transferor Member”) and the purchasing Member (the “Transferee Member”) after a transaction of spot gold is concluded between them.  Given the issue of the Statement, no electronic transfer will be made by means of blockchain.   Settlement of purchase price shall be conducted by the Transferor Member and the Transferee Member in the same manner as the existing practice of spot gold transaction.  
2.2.4.	Transferee Member shall take possession of the relevant physical gold within prescribed settlement period of spot gold trading prescribed by the Society from time to time.  
2.2.5.	However, if Transferee Member fails to take physical possession of the physical gold purchased from the designated vault, such Transferee Member will be charged for a vault fee (which is effectively higher than transaction fee).   
2.3.		Restrictions of Goldzip: 
2.3.1.	In case a Transferee Member fails to take possession of the physical gold within prescribed settlement period, such Member will face a limitation of transferee – no transfer of Goldzip to the Depositing Member as identified on the Goldzip will be allowed (i.e. no transfer of Goldzip to the Depositing Member will be registered by the Issuer).
2.4.	Additional Features of Goldzip: 
2.4.1.	Goldzip is not a currency, fiat or otherwise issued by the Issuer, nor is it backed by any type or quantity of credits.
2.4.2.	Neither the Issuer nor anyone else is obliged to purchase any Goldzip from any Member at any time.
2.4.3.	Goldzip does not entitle the holder to any rights to any distributions of profits or surplus assets of the Issuer or any other person. 
3.	Proceeds raised:   
3.1.		No proceeds will be raised by the issue of Goldzip.
3.2.		Vault charge will make against Transferee Member who fails to take possession of the physical gold transferred on a transfer of Goldzip.  The vault is operated by the Society or a subsidiary of the Society and not by the Issuer.
3.3.		A transaction fee, denominated in Goldzip, will be levied against the Transferee Member on a transfer of Goldzip.  Relevant expenses of the Issuer (including promotion expenses such as discounted transaction fee) will be funded by the transaction fee received.  Goldzips so received, as transaction fee, may be sold by the Issuer for cash to defray expenses. Any surplus will be retained for the benefit of the Issuer or distributed as profits to shareholders of the Issuer (currently, the Society).


   
Schedule 2 – Our analysis
(i)	Whether GoldZips are “Securities”
Definition of “Securities”
Schedule 1 of Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571), the “SFO”) provides that “securities” means-
(a) 	shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes of, or issued by, a body, whether incorporated or unincorporated, or a government or municipal government authority;
(b) 	rights, options or interests (whether described as units or otherwise) in, or in respect of, such shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes;
(c) 	certificates of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificates for, receipts for, or warrants to subscribe for or purchase, such shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes;
(d) 	interests in any collective investment scheme;
(e) 	interests, rights or property, whether in the form of an instrument or otherwise, commonly known as securities;
(f) 	interests, rights or property which is interests, rights or property, or is of a class or description of interests, rights or property, prescribed by notice under section 392 of the SFO as being regarded as securities in accordance with the terms of the notice; 
(g) 	a structured product that does not come within any of paragraphs (a) to (f) but in respect of which the issue of any advertisement, invitation or document that is or contains an invitation to the public to do any act referred to in section 103(1)(a) of the SFO is authorized, or required to be authorized, under section 105(1) of the SFO, 
but does not include—
(i) 	shares or debentures of a company that is a private company within the meaning of section 11 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622); 
(ii)	any interest in any collective investment scheme that is—
(A) 	a registered scheme as defined in section 2(1) of the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Ordinance (Cap. 485), or its constituent fund as defined in section 2 of the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes (General) Regulation (Cap. 485 sub. leg. A);
(B) 	an occupational retirement scheme as defined in section 2(1) of the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance (Cap. 426); or
(C) 	a contract of insurance in relation to any class of insurance business specified in the First Schedule to the Insurance Companies Ordinance (Cap. 41);
(iii) 	any interest arising under a general partnership agreement or proposed general partnership agreement unless the agreement or proposed agreement relates to an undertaking, scheme, enterprise or investment contract promoted by or on behalf of a person whose ordinary business is or includes the promotion of similar undertakings, schemes, enterprises or investment contracts (whether or not that person is, or is to become, a party to the agreement or proposed agreement);
(iv) 	any negotiable receipt or other negotiable certificate or document evidencing the deposit of a sum of money, or any rights or interest arising under the receipt, certificate or document;
(v) 	any bill of exchange within the meaning of section 3 of the Bills of Exchange Ordinance (Cap. 19) and any promissory note within the meaning of section 89 of that Ordinance;
(vi) 	any debenture that specifically provides that it is not negotiable or transferable (excluding a debenture that is a structured product in respect of which the issue of any advertisement, invitation or document that is or contains an invitation to the public to do any act referred to in section 103(1)(a) of the SFO is authorized, or required to be authorized, under section 105(1) of the SFO); 
(vii) 	interests, rights or property which is interests, rights or property, or is of a class or description of interests, rights or property, prescribed by notice under section 392 of the SFO as not being regarded as securities in accordance with the terms of the notice.
Application of definition of securities in the SFO to Goldzip
1.	 “shares” is defined under the Schedule 1 of the SFO as:
“any share in the share capital of a corporation, and except where a distinction between stock and shares is express or implied, included stock”

Furthermore, under the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the Laws of Hong Kong) (“CO”), “shares” are defined as:
means a share in a company’s share capital; and 
if any of the company’s shares is converted into stock, includes stock.
The Hong Kong Legal Dictionary also defines “share” as:

“[a] security issued by a company representing part ownership in the company, entitling the holder to participate in the distribution of the company’s profits and, when the company is wound up, its surplus assets.”

We understand that the Issuer is limited by shares and has no stock in its capital.  As the sole shareholder of the Issuer is the Society, there are no other persons holding shares in the Issuer.  Goldzip has no participation rights in any distribution of the Issuer and no voting rights in respect of the Issuer.  Thus, Goldzip does not represent a share in respect of the Issuer as defined in the CO.     
 “debentures” are defined in Schedule 1 of the SFO as: 
“debentures include debenture stocks, bonds, and other debt securities of a corporation, whether constituting a charge on the assets of the corporation or not:”
If an instrument creates an acknowledgment of a debt by a company, it is likely to be construed as a debenture. It is not necessary for an instrument to be expressly described as a debenture, and the use of the term debenture in the instrument is not conclusive evidence of the instrument being a debenture. The key element of a debenture is that there must be an undertaking of some sort of debt by a company.
Although Goldzip holders on surrender may retreive the gold deposited, they do not create or acknowledge a debt owed by the Issuer.  Therefore, Goldzip would not be deemed as debentures of the Issuer or any persons.
The other instruments in paragraph (a) of the definition of securities are loan stocks, funds, bonds and notes. Loan stocks are hybrid combinations of shares and/or debt.  Based on our analysis on shares and debentures above and the assumptions made in the opinion, we believe Goldzip will unlikely be regarded as a loan stock, bond or note. 
2.	Paragraphs (b) and (c) of the definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO refer to the categories of securities that are rights, interests and warrants and certificates of interest or participation in, temporary or interim certificates for, receipts for, or warrants to subscribe for or purchase in shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes. Since we have concluded that Goldzip is not likely to be regarded as shares, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes and we understand that Goldzip does not entitle its holder to receive, subscribe or purchase any such instruments in the Issuer, we believe paragraphs (b) and (c) of the definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO do not capture Goldzip.  
3.	Paragraph (d) of the definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO refer an interest in the “collective investment schemes” (“CIS”). A collective investment scheme is an investment product that is collective in nature, the definition of which embraces and modernises the concepts of “unit trust”, “mutual fund corporation” and “investment arrangements”. 
The definition “collective investment scheme” as set out under Schedule 1 of the SFO can be narrowed down to a more concise four-part test: a collective investment scheme generally requires: (i) an arrangement in respect of property; (ii) participants in the scheme do not have day-to-day control over the management of the property; (iii) the property is managed as a whole by or on behalf of the person operating the arrangement, and/or the contribution of the participants and the profits or income from which payments are made are pooled, and (iv) the purpose of the arrangement is for participants to participate in or receive profits, income or other returns from the acquisition and management of property. It is important to note that all four limbs must be satisfied to constitute a CIS.
•	Is there an arrangement in respect of property?
Property:  If Goldzip is to be considered a collective investment scheme, the gold bullion and Goldzip might all constitute “property” under an arrangement in the event a wide definition under the SFO.  
Nevertheless, arguably, there is no arrangement in respect of the property:
-	Gold bullion will be deposited by the Depositing Member to a designated vault of the Issuer and thus, during the period of such deposit, it will be under the control and management of the Issuer (as a custodian).  Goldzip will be issued to the Depositing Member with a depositor specific serial number.  Possession of the gold bullion can only be taken by holders of the related Goldzip.  However, the gold bullion is not acquired by and does not at any time belong to the Issuer.  The Issuer may not sell, lend, pledge or otherwise dispose of the gold bullion deposited with it.      
-	Goldzip is not a property under the management of the Issuer after its issue.
•	Do participants have day to day control?
The depositors of the gold bullion (being Depositing Members) and purchasers of Goldzip might be considered to be “participants in the scheme” but they do not have the day-to-day control over the management of the gold bullion deposited.  
•	Is the property managed as a whole by or on behalf of the person operating the arrangement and/or are the contribution of the participants and the profits or income from which payments are made pooled?
The directors of the Issuer and the Issuer might be the “the person operating the arrangement” as they launch Goldzip and are in control of the development and operation of the Issuer.  
However, the Issuer is just a custodian of the gold bullion, save for the debarring of a portion of the gold bullion into smaller denominations to satisfy the taking of possession by holders of Goldzip, the property is not managed as a whole by the Issuer or its directors.  The contributions of the participants, being the gold bullion, are not pooled (they are kept under specified serial numbers assigned to the participants in respect of their respective properties which will be taken possession of according to and against such serial numbers) and there is no profits or income generated from the transaction fees to be received on registration of transfer of Goldzip to any holder of Goldzip in such capacity.  
What prompts a Member to participate by depositing the gold bullion is likely to be its intention to boost its sales and dispose of its idle gold and obtain a return on its gold commodity investment..   
•	Is the purpose of the arrangement for participants to participate in or receive profits, income or other returns from the acquisition and management of property?
Arguably not.  
Purchasers of Goldzip are only entitled to take possession of the related gold bullion.  
Any profit or income or returns to be received by the contributor of gold bullion will likely be solely from the proceeds of disposal of Goldzip and not from any pool of profits or income generated by the Issuer, given as discussed, the requirement to take possession of gold bullion within prescribed settlement periods after transfer of Goldzip and the “low” transaction fee at the rate of 0.1% of Goldzip transacted and payable by transferees of Goldzip.
Given there is no acquisition of property upon deposit of the gold bullion, there is no management of the gold bullion by the Issuer (which only acts as a custodian and arranges for  debarring of the gold bullion as required to facilitate the taking possession of gold bullion in smaller denominations), there is no pooling of contributions (gold bullions contributed are kept under specified serial numbers and will be taken possession of by a buyer of Goldzip against such serial numbers), the systems of trading and transfer of Goldzip are not acquired or developed using contributions by participants (being gold bullion deposited), the issue of Goldzip is unlikely to fall squarely into the CIS definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO. 
According to the Securities and Futures (Collective Investment Schemes) Notice (Cap 571M), any arrangements for the purchase of gold coins or gold bullion that are made available in the course of business and have the purpose or effect, or pretended purpose or effect, of enabling the participating persons-
a. 	to acquire the ownership of the coins or bullion for valuable consideration;
b. 	to defer taking possession of the coins or bullion; and
c. 	to transfer or retransfer the ownership of the coins or bullion to a person who is a party to, or is referred to in, the arrangements,
are to be regarded as "collective investment schemes" for the purposes of Part IV of the SFO.
Based on the construction of the sentence, all three limbs must be satisfied to constitute a collective investment scheme.   As set out in the Legislative Counsel Brief when the notice was introduced, the effect of the notice is that any person who offers certain “paper gold schemes” to the public is subject to the general prohibition on the issue of advertisements etc. under section 103 of the SFO, and has to obtain prior authorization from the SFC under section 105 of the SFO.  Nevertheless, dealing of such schemes is not subject to the licensing regime provided for under Part V of the SFO.  However, based on the Frequently Asked Questions published by the SFC, as a general policy, the applicant must be authorised under the Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155) to carry on banking business as an authorised financial institution.
We understand that under the current system, physical delivery of gold is to be arranged by Members themselves and the Society will play no part in the process.  We further understand that Transferee Members are required to take possession of the gold bullion purchased within the prescribed settlement period after registration of transfer of the Goldzip.  While there would not be any transfer or retransfer of Goldzip to the Issuer, transfer or retransfer of Goldzip to the Depositing Member is not allowed after the expiration of the prescribed settlement period (which limits the availability of potential purchasers of Goldzip) and a fairly high vault charge (effectively higher than the transaction fee) will be imposed to deter any delay in taking possession.  As such, there is no purpose or effect or pretended effect of enabling the buying or acquisition of Goldzip to defer taking possession and at the same time allowing transfer or retransfer of the ownership of the Goldzip to a party to, or who is referred to in the Goldzip arrangements (being the Depositing Member or the Issuer) after a deferring in taking possession of the gold bullion. 
4.	Paragraph (e) of the definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO classifies interests, rights or property, whether in a form of an instrument or otherwise, commonly known as securities. Paragraph (f) of the definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO stipulates that interests, rights or property prescribed by notice under section 392 of the SFO as being regarded as securities in accordance with the terms of the notice are securities. Gold (as a property) is commonly considered as a commodity rather than securities and receipts of gold, an instrument (unlike receipts for shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes which are defined as securities under Schedule 1 to the SFO) has not been prescribed by notice under section 392 as securities as defined in section 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the SFO.
5.	Paragraph (g) of the definition under Schedule 1 of the SFO provides that a structured product that does not come within any of paragraphs (a) to (f) but in respect of which the issue of any advertisement, invitation or document that is or contains an invitation to the public to do any act referred to in section 103(1)(a) of the SFO is authorized, or required to be authorized, under section 105(1) of the SFO, falls within the meaning of securities.
The structured products regime aims to regulate investment products and investment agreements such as equity-linked deposits or equity-linked investments (sometimes a hybrid of securities and regulated investment agreements).  Under Schedule 1 of SFO, structured product is defined as an instrument under which some or all of the return and/or amount due or the method of settlement is determined by reference to (i) changes in the price or value or level (or a range within the price, value or level) of (a) any type or combination of types of securities, commodity, index, property, interest rate, currency exchange rate or futures contract, or (b) any basket of more than one type, or any combination of types of security, commodity, index, property, interest rate, currency exchange rate or futures contract; or (ii) the occurrence or non-occurrence of any specified event(s). 
For Goldzip to be classified as structured products, the returns and/or the amount due or the method of settlement would have to change with reference to those financial products referred to in Schedule 1 of SFO or some specified events. However, we understand that there is no reference to any financial product of any return and/or amount due from the Issuer. Further, there are no change settlement methods to be prescribed.  Goldzip does not grant any ownership of the Issuer.  The value of Goldzip may fluctuate due to various factors, such as their popularity but not due to changes in the price or value or level of any of the financial products as set out under Schedule 1 of the SFO. Accordingly, it is unlikely that Goldzip will be classified as structured products given the lack of such features. 
Under Schedule 1 of the SFO, regulated investment agreements are considered structured products. Such agreements are defined as contracts that require an investor to enter into an agreement with an expectation of profit, which is calculated by a change in the value of any property.  Since the Issuer will not offer nor is it obliged to provide any profit or return on any change in value of a property, it is unlikely that any transfer of Goldzip amounts to an investment agreement.  
	Regulatory Concerns:
	Increasing concern of regulator on digital representation of ownership of assets
The relatively novel nature of digital tokens, coupled with their increasing popularity, has resulted in an increased risk of regulatory attention. The SFC has stated in its “Statement on Security Token Offerings” published on 28 March 2019 that security tokens which are digital representations of ownership of assets (eg, gold or real estate) or economic rights (eg, a share of profits or revenue) utilising blockchain technology are likely to be "securities" under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (SFO) and so subject to the securities laws of Hong Kong.  Although Goldzip does not involve blockchain technology, and gold (as a property) is commonly considered as a commodity rather than securities and receipt of gold (unlike receipts for shares, stocks, debentures, loan stocks, funds, bonds or notes which are defined as securities under Schedule 1 to the SFO) has not yet been prescribed by notice under section 392 as securities of the SFO,  this area involves complex and developing areas of law that have not been fully tested by the courts or regulatory authorities of Hong Kong.  This means that a Court or regulatory authority could take a different view to that which has been expressed in our opinion.  
Paper Gold Scheme
As any arrangement for the purchase of gold bullion that is made available in the course of business and have the purpose or effect, or pretended purpose or effect, of enabling the purchaser (a) to acquire ownership of the bullion for valuable consideration, (b) to defer taking possession of the bullion and (c) to transfer or retransfer the ownership to a person who is a party to or referred to in the arrangement is a collective investment scheme will require approval of the SFC, there is a risk that Goldzip might have features of all of these three limbs if the taking possession requirement or the restriction on transfer of Goldzip is not straightly adhered to.
Interests in Collective Investment Scheme
While Goldzip raises no proceeds on its issue, it may risk being considered as securities if there is any indication of profits, definitive income or other returns on participating in the launch documents of Goldzip found.  
The regulatory interruption of securities and collective investment scheme is difficult to predict, but with appropriate care in the execution and the representations made about the project, the Issuer may be in a position to rebut that allegation.
(ii)	Whether Goldzip is futures contract
Definition  of  “futures contract” and “futures market”
Schedule 1 of the SFO provides that: 
“futures contract” means:- 
(a)	a contract or an option on a contract made under the rules or conventions of a futures market; and 
(b)	interests, rights or property which is interests, rights or property, or is of a class or description of interests, rights or property, prescribed by notice under section 392 of the SFO as being regarded as futures contracts in accordance with the terms of the notice.
“futures market” means a place at which facilities are provided for persons to negotiate or conclude sales and purchases of, or for bringing together on a regular basis sellers and purchasers of:-
(a)	contracts the effect of which is—
(i)	that one party agrees to deliver to the other party at an agreed future time an agreed property, or an agreed quantity of a property, at an agreed price; or
(ii)	that the parties will make an adjustment between them at an agreed future time according to whether at that time an agreed property is worth more or less or an index or other factor stands at a higher or lower level than a value or level agreed at the time of making of the contract; or
(c)	options on contracts of the kind described in paragraph (a), 
where—
(i)	the contracts or options of the kind described in paragraph (a) or (b) are novated or guaranteed by a central counterparty under the rules or conventions of the market on which they are traded; or
(ii)	the contractual obligations under the contracts or options of the kind described in paragraph (a) or (b) are normally discharged before the contractual expiry date under the rules or conventions of the market on which they are traded,
but does not include the office of a recognized clearing house.
Application to Goldzip
Contracts not made under rules or conventions of a futures market
Based on the Securities and Futures Commission website, spot trading of gold is not regulated and the Society is the sole exchange of physical gold.
Notwithstanding that Goldzip may on presentation to the vault, entitle its registered holder to retrieve gold bullion deposited, we conclude that Goldzip is not a “futures contract” on the following basis:
(i)	agreements in respect of Goldzip are not contracts or options on contracts made under the rules or conventions of a futures market.  The transfer of Goldzip does not take place in a futures market as defined under Schedule 1 to the SFO; and  
(ii)	agreements in respect of issue of Goldzip or receipt of gold have not been prescribed under section 392 of the SFO as futures contracts.
Designation by the Financial Secretary 
There is a potential residual risk that the SFC may request the Financial Secretary to designate any Goldzip as securities, regulated investment agreement, structured product or collective investment scheme under sections 392 and 393 of the SFO respectively should the SFC find it necessary to do so to protect the investing public.  However, there is no indication currently that the SFC or the Financial Secretary would exercise its power pursuant to these provisions.
Risk of Regulatory Action
If Goldzips (as securities) are not issued relying on any exemption of Companies (Winding Up and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance (Chapter 32 of the Laws of Hong Kong) (“CWUMPO”), or in the event that the SFC subsequently considers Goldzip, the issue of Goldzip as a CIS or Goldzip as securities, the SFC may halt any such issue and may bring litigation proceedings against the Issuer given there is no approval obtained from the SFC and there is no express exemption available under section 103 of the SFO for CIS.   Further, the SFC may impose a fine (including a daily fine) against the Issuer and its directors and parties participating in the issue for a breach of the relevant prospectus registration requirement under CWUMPO until the relevant requirements are complied with and there would be criminal liability (imprisonment and fine) for any misstatement in the documentation which might be deem
